# Volunteer-Tracker
This program has an admin message when logging on, allows volunteers to add and view their hours, and a searchable schedule!

## Features

- **Admin Message Board**
  Displays announcemts from 'messgae.txt' when the application launches. This message will be seen by anyone who launches the program.

- **Hour Tracker**
  Allows volunteers to log their hours and notes for each volunteering session. Data is stored in 'log.txt', and users can search the database for their past records. The search bar also calculates the total hours that the volunteer has served.

- **Schedule Tracker** 
Displays a weekly schedule from 'schedule.txt' and allows users to search for volunteers.

## Setup Instructions

1. Clone or download this repository.
2. Open the project in your IDE (e.g. Netbeans).
3.  Ensure thet the following text files are included in the project directory:
  - 'message.txt'
  - 'log.txt'
  - 'schedule.txt'
4. Run the application.

## File Useage

### 'message.txt'
- Contains the administrator message that is visible for everyone who uses the application (displayed on welcome screen).
- Can be edited at any time to update announcements

### 'schedule.txt'
- Contains the weekly schedule, some formatting examples are:
    MONDAY
    12:00 John (Optional note)
    1:00 Dave

    TUESDAY
    10:00 Mike
- All text under each title will be displayed in the application.
- Under each day you may include:
  - Day (Optional)
  - Time (Optional)
  - Name
  - Notes (Optional)
- You can include the day at the start to allow users to search volunteers for a certain day

### 'log.txt'
- Stores all volunteer hour enteries.
- **Do not edit this file, the program will manage its contents.**

## Notes
- This application uses local text files for storage. To make this application operate on other devices, share the text files with the other device, or sync them with a service like [Nextcloud](https://github.com/nextcloud)
